11 11 11 10 11 12 13 12 11
see a new dimension of excitement
achieve superior cornering performance
the key to superior cornering
performance is an optimal balance of
front and rear weight distribution and a
shortened wheelbase yamaha's compact
inline four-cylinder engine provides
this advantage for the entire YZF our
series the inline four-cylinder engine
offers a new dimension in linear
throttle action this is achieved through
the crossplane crankshaft and the 90
degrees phase positioning of its four
crank pins the rider operates the
throttle producing torque this torque is
essentially produced solely from engine
combustion however total engine output
or composite torque is actually a
combination of this combustion torque
plus the inertial torque produced by the
rotation of the crankshaft the inertial
torque is unlike combustion torque
inertial torque is resulting from the
rotation of the crankshaft combustion
torque can be operated by the rider
through the throttle but inertial torque
grows larger in proportion to the speed
of the crankshaft rotation and thus
prevents linear throttle action from
being achieved
as you can see this is due to the crank
moving the fastest that top and bottom
dead center and the slowest at 90
degrees and 270 degrees the result is
this graph the rider wants combustion
torque but because of the addition of
inertial Tori which cannot be controlled
the result is something disordered a
compositor unlike combustion torque the
solution to this is bound in the
crossplane crankshaft by differing the
adjacent cranks rotations by 90 degrees
inertial torque fluctuation is
eliminated as you can see inertial
torque is almost completely eliminated
and the combustion torque sought by the
rider is almost perfectly matched by the
composite to work of the engine in other
words the rider is able to achieve
linear power delivery and traction than
the operation of the throttle with the
exception of a few racing machines no
commercially available motorcycle has
offered an inline four-cylinder engine
with a crossplane crankshaft this new
dimension in linear throttle action
brought about through Yamaha technology
is going to shift the entire paradigm of
the super sports motorcycle world
you